# &copy; Origin: https://github.com/mahnazkoupaee/WikiHow-Dataset [last accessed: 2022-01-24]	How to Be a Good Pet Owner (for Kids)
You should start by providing the necessities for your pet, including food and fresh water. Your parents may already have a feeding schedule set up, with set times in the day for feeding your pet. You should follow this feeding schedule and ask your parents if you can help them with giving your pet food and water on a daily basis.You can help your parents put your pet’s food in their bowl and make sure that your pet eats all of their food. You may also be allowed to give your pet a healthy treat, with the supervision of a parent.Always ask your parents if it’s time to feed the pet before you do it yourself. Your pet may have a strict feeding schedule so they are not overfed or underfed.If you have a pet dog, rabbit, bird or hamster, you should also keep an eye on your pet’s water dish as your pet may end up drinking a lot of water throughout the day. Try to always keep it full with fresh water. If you are younger than 10 years old, you may need help lifting and pouring water into your pet’s water dish.;, You can also be a good pet owner by making sure you clean up after your pet. This means picking up any food that falls out of their food bowl and wiping up any water around their water dish so their feeding area is clean. You can also pick up any pet toys and put them in a bin or in one area so they are not scattered all over the house.You may also be able to help your parents clean your pet’s cage or living area. If you have a pet hamster, bird, lizard, or rabbit, you may help your parents remove and replace the newspaper lining in your pet’s cage or help them pick up droppings in the cage. If you have a fish, you may help your parents change out the water in the fish tank so it is clean and fresh.Make sure you always wear gloves or use a tissue to pick up any pet droppings. Wash your hands well after touching your pet’s droppings., You can also pitch in and groom your pet on a regular basis. Depending on the type of pet you have, this may mean brushing your dog, rabbit, or cat once a day. You may be able to do this on your own or with the supervision of your parents.If you have a dog, you can also make sure your pet gets a bath once a week and stays clean. You may help your parents bathe your pet or bathe your pet yourself. Make sure you use the right techniques to bath your pet.Do not try to bath other pets like a rabbit, a bird, a hamster or a cat. These animals can self clean themselves and do not need regular baths.If your pet is a dog, you should check your pet for fleas or ticks on a daily basis. If you notice your pet has fleas or ticks, you should tell your parents., If you have a pet dog, you will need to walk them on a daily basis, especially if your dog is medium to large in size. You should create a walking schedule with your parents and assist your parents in walking your pet. You may put the collar or harness on the dog and take a turn holding the leash during the walk, with the supervision of a parent.If your dog is a puppy, you should only walk him a five to ten minutes a day. Ask your parents about how often you can walk your new puppy and follow their directions.If you have other pets, like a cat, a bird, a hamster, or a rabbit, you may not need to walk them. Instead, you should spend time playing with these pets so they still get some exercise., You should spend at least ten to fifteen minutes a day playing with your pet so they feel loved and acknowledged by you. You should also use encouraging words and reward them with a treat if they behave well.Make sure you use your fingers to gently pet and stroke your pet. Always be gentle when playing with your pet so you do not hurt them.Use pet toys to play with your pet. You may use a light pen to stimulate your pet fish or a treat to teach your bird a fun new trick. You can also use balls to play with a pet cat or a pet dog.Try not to play with your pet too often and give your pet some downtime during the day. Your pet needs time to nap and rest so they are not overly tired or stressed., Your pet should be trained properly to ensure they live well with you and your parents. A well trained pet will also be less of an issue when they meet other pets and strangers outside of your home. You should discuss your pet’s training with your parents and be sure it includes basic obedience commands, especially if your pet is a dog.You should work with your parents to teach your pet dog to sit, stay, and come when called. You should also learn how to calm your dog down when someone is at the door or when your dog is around new people and new dogs.
