# &copy; Origin: https://github.com/mahnazkoupaee/WikiHow-Dataset [last accessed: 2022-01-24]	How to Create a Neopoprealist Art Work
See the image for how this drawing develops step-by-step. However, there is an important detail: the following drawings are to examine it, and then, to create something unique.Use the lines to create the image shape and sections.Fill appeared sections with different patterns/ ornaments.Add text if needed, for example "NeoPopRealism is 25!"Add a colored strip on the top, any color you wish.;, Painting a mural always requires some preparation. You‘ll need equipment and effort, but planning and attention to detail will help you succeed. Painting a mural requires a suitable location, with the right surface that can be painted.This surface should be smooth and flat. However, even rough-textured surfaces can be used for your NeoPopRealist mural project., For exterior projects that last for years, using a newer 100% acrylic exterior paint would be your best choice. For interior walls, use latex paints. Latex offer easier cleanup and lower costs. By measuring the total wall area to be covered, the total amount of paint can be calculated, but since this mural painting requires two colors - white and black - figuring the actual area to be painted each color is necessary to allow purchasing the right amount of each one.Large walls backgrounds may be rolled or sprayed with a white paint sprayer, where details may be added with brushes.Paints are sensitive to high temperatures, humidity, direct sunlight, however, the interior projects do not have many complications. In public places, keeping the mural protected may require attention. For that reason, if you make your NeoPopRealist mural dedicated to its 25-year anniversary in school or office, you can consider using varnish for your mural., See sample above. The design will give you a sense of proportion. You will have unique requirements and elements., Use a sketch and measure at scale the distances and locations of various points of your subject. Measuring key features will help you calculate the amount of paint when each feature is identified by its color., If the surface is low, the whole mural can be painted standing on the ground or from a stepladder. For higher work, you may have to rent a scaffold., Mark the horizontal and vertical lines., Use white paint as background., Then begin marking, using your scaled sketch, the location of key elements of objects, located in the foreground. Everything depends on the complexity of your mural. If you are confident in your artistic results, you may choose to draw all of the details in freehand., Be careful, keep clean transition edges from one color (black) to another (white). However, mistakes can be touched up later. Always allow fresh color to dry before proceeding to the drawing., An example would be painting a large patterns use big brushes, limbs, use small brushes for tiny and detailed patterns., If you have a drip or run, paint over it with the color paint appropriate for that location. Sharpen lines and patterns if they are blurred., If it is intended to last a long time or if it is on a surface that require cleaning, overcoat your mural project with a clear sealer., However, if you won't be able to involve more than 16 percent of your brain's grays matter, you'll end up with the primitive crafting of patterns or even worse, with doodling or so-called zen-doodling. But to create the NeoPopRealist ART one needs the abilities, which can be developed in talented people by studying using Nadia Russ' Neopoprealist instructional books. Other, the copycats' self-promotional superficial books will teach you only how to doodle because they have nothing in common with visual arts and its mission.
